--------------------DOCKER FILE COMPONENTS-----------------------

FROM :- It is used to define base operating system images (EX:-Ubuntu,centos,sonarqube).

MAINTAINER :- It tells about author details (Who wrote the docker file and some author details).

LABEL :- It is used to add the description about the image.

COPY :- It is used to copy the files  from Docker host to Container.

ADD :- It is also used to copy the files from Docker host to Containerl, it will also download the files from internet and send those files to container.

RUN :- Used to execute the commands. ( we use this while creating the Image & While Building the docker file)

CMD :- It is also used to EXEcute the commands. ( we use this while creating the Container / While Build the image & To start the Application)

ENTRY POINT :- Used to execute the commands while creating the container.

EXPOSE :- Used to publish the port Number.

ARG :- It is used to define the variables. (We can't access the values inside the container) (We use this while creating the images)

ENV :- It is used to define the variables. (We can access the values inside the container) (We use this while creating the conainer)

WORKDIR :- Used to set a default path on a container.


docker exec -it container name bash :- To enter into the container.

docker ps :- To see the running containers

docker ps -a :- To see the all containers

docker run -itd -p 1234:80 --name container2 httpd ("itd --> interactive terminal detach")

docker stop conatiner1 :- To stop the container.

docker start container1 :- to start the container.

docker stop con2 cont3 :- To stop multiple containers at a time.

docker start con2 cont3 :- To start multiple containers at a time.

docker stop $(docker ps) :- It is used to stop all running Containers.

docker start $(docker ps -a) :- It is used to start all running Containers.

docker kill cont2 :- It is used to stop the container

STOP ------> SIGTERM ---> Docker Daemon (it take time to stop)

KILL ------>SIGKILL ----> Docker Daemon (Stop immediately)

docker rm cont2 :- To remove the Container

docker rm cont1 cont2 :- To remove multiple containers

docker rm $(docker ps -a) :- To remove all containers.

docker rename cont1 flm :- To change the container name

/var/lib/docker/ :- Docker default path

docker build -t ashu . --->To Build docker file ("." Means present working directory && "t- Tag")

exit --> To comeout from container.

docker build -t ashu . --build-arg=cloud=gcp :- To give variable values dynamically.

docker container prune :- To remove all stopped containers

docker image prune :- To remove dangling images (over ride images)

docker rmi $(docker images) :- To remove all images.

docker login :- To push image to docker hub (Enter your user name and password)

docker tag image name  dockerhub name/dockerhub repo name:tag :- To create tag

docker push dockerhub name/dockerhub repo name:tag :- To push image

docker inspect container name :- To get container full data

docker network ls :- To see the list of networks

docker network create network name :- To create custom network





